Title    : Final Arena Server Code
Filename : fasrv12.zip
Version  : 1.20
Date     : 12-8-97
Author   : David 'crt' Wright
Email    : wrightd@stanford.edu
Webpage  : http://www.planetquake.com/servers/arena

Intro
-----
Rocket Arena is an interesting new twist to traditional deathmatch. 
It is a strictly one-on-one game with "winner stays, loser goes" type rotation. 
It is designed both to improve deathmatch skills and be a kick butt patch to boot.  

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

READ THESE THOROUGHLY BEFORE INSTALLING

Rocket Arena is both a QuakeWorld and Normal Quake patch.
You MUST also install the client pak according to its directions before
running the server.

To install:
Extract the progs.dat and qwprogs.dat into your \quake\arena directory.
You do NOT have to install the source code, that is optional.

To run a QuakeWorld 2.10 server, use:
qwsv.exe +gamedir arena +setmaster 204.182.161.2 +exec rotate.cfg +maxclients 6 +timelimit 20 +fraglimit 15

To run a Normal Quake server:
Start quake or winquake or winded with 
winquake -game arena -dedicated 6 +map arenax +timelimit 20 +fraglimit 15

however you can run either a listen or dedicated server.
The normal Quake version automatically rotates through all the current maps.
To customize the rotation, you must recompile the source. Look at "rotate.qc" for
more info.

The QuakeWorld version has customized rotation.

Exec 'rotate.cfg' to run all the Final Arena maps

OR

Exec 'newmaps.cfg' to run through the new Final Arena and the TF Arena maps

OR

Exec 'classic.cfg' to run some of the most popular earlier Arena maps

OR

customize the rotate.cfg file to your preference. Note that the last map must
loop to the first.

The rotate configs do NOT have time or fraglimits set, so you will need to set
them yourself.

Also, you may want to designate your server as 'HPB' or 'LPB'
While not everyone will follow these designations, it will help significantly.
A 4 or 5:1 ratio of HPB:LPB servers should be about right, so check and see what
type other people are running.

We feel that 6-7 players is the max for a good RA server, but feel free to experiment.

How to Play
-----------

See the client pak documentation


Impulse Quick Reference
-----------------------

IMPULSE 68 - shows simple statistics for the current level. Skill = wins / (wins + loses) * 100
IMPULSE 69 - shows your "position" in line
IMPULSE 70 - step out of line for up to 5 minutes
IMPULSE 71 - set status bar text for 320x200
IMPULSE 72 - set status bar text for 320x240 or higher

These only work on the client side of course.

The Maps
--------
See client pak documentation

The Quake-C Code
----------------
Include in this distribution is the QC code for Normal Quake and QuakeWorld.
The following rules govern the use of the QC:
1. You may not sell, license, lease, or otherwise commercialy exploit the source.
2. You may not create derivative works from this source with the following exceptions:
     a. You may modify the code to display your own MOTD, or other server info
     b. You may modify the code to use a custom map rotation.
3. You MAY however use individual routines and functions in your own mod, so long
   as credit is given.

My reasoning for not allowing derivative works is simply that I do not wish to deal
with seven or eight mildly different versions of RA which will simply confuse players
and send a lot of mail in my direction. If you have a cool feature that you would like
to add, contact me, and I will either add it or let you do it and give you credit.
I am releasing this source so that you can learn from it and make minor changes 
to your public server. I did not release it earlier because it was not in a condition
I would want to support.

With that said, if you are trying to learn from the source, the QW source is much
better organized and commented. Check the arena.qc file.
I use a circularly linked list to store the line, which should be documented in
just about any C/S book.

Copyright and Distribution Permissions
--------------------------------------

This patch is freely distributable provided that 
this readme is distributed as well and is unchanged.

All code is copyright PlanetQuake 1997.
Commercial code licensing is available by contacting wrightd@stanford.edu

DISCLAIMER:  If this patch ever formats your hard drive, TerMy takes full legal
responsibility. Uh.. just kidding.. this patch is 100% safe, tested, and FDA approved,
so you should have no trouble with it. But if you do.. its not our fault.

Availability
------------

This modification is available from the following places:

WWW   : http://www.planetquake.com/servers/arena

