
                 
}---------->(((º>----------<  Powder Keg!  >----------<º)))<----------{

			Date: 22nd of December, 1999
		       Title: Powder Keg
		   Filenames: pkeg1.bsp
			      pkeg2.bsp
	                      pkeg3.bsp
		        Game: Quake 1
		      Author: Mr Fribbles (Van Ricketts)
		       Email: fribbles@planetquake.com
		         ICQ: 1952617
		         Web: http://www.planetquake.com/frib/
			      http://www.planetquake.com/peejnfrib/


}---------->(((º>----------< About The Map >----------<º)))<----------{

This level is a remake of the pre-existing map fribdev1 - powder keg.
It was created in order to eliminate the numerous clipping bugs present
in the original map, including the fucked up, illogical, impossible,
dirty great big disgusting QW 2.3 ONLY clipping bug O' death at the RA.

Why bother? I still play this level a lot, so does ZzJohnzZ & co, and
hopefully even some other people. These clipping bugs shit me,
especially the QW 2.3 one, which I could do nothing about... QW 2.3
was released AFTER my map was released, and it BROKE my map, goddamn
it. So I fixed it.

I didn't have the original source files, so the map has been rebuilt
from scratch... it is a very simple map though, so that only took a
couple of hours. I resisted the tempation to make a lot of changes to
the map... the gameplay is IDENTICAL to the original, because it was
already perfect, and there are only a couple of very small changes...
mostly to accomodate different texturing, and in one case, to provide
just a bit more detail (at the MH).

In the Powder Keg tradition, there are not one, not two, but THREE
different versions to choose from. In each case the level is identical,
but the texturing is totally different. Pick the one which suits you
best, or mix and match, there should be something there you like. I
always loved the original textured version, so that has remained, but
rather than re-doing the other 2 versions in the original fribdev1, I
whipped up two new versions. Both use primarily textures from Heretic2,
which I doubt have been used in Quake before, and they certainly do
look the business.

I have included the original fribdev1.txt in the pkeg.zip archive, so
that De Venator recieves proper credit as co-author of this map.

--------
Below is a list of changes from the original fribdev1.bsp. This is by
no means a comprehensive changelog, and I've no doubt missed something
stuff... PLUS noone is going to read this shit anyway, but here it is:

- lighting is different. I didn't have the original source files, and
since Dev did the light I don't have a clue where the lights were, what
values he used, etc. I decided that I could make the lighting a bit 
nicer anyway, whilst still retaining the same general level of 
brightness and ambience present in fribdev1.
 
- respawns are in a different order. This is because I don't have a 
clue what the original order was, although obviously I COULD load the
map, write down the order, and then re-create them one by one, it 
wouldn't be much of a problem. BUT any decent server/mod has randomized
respawns anyway so I doubt anyone has memorized the order.
 
- ADDED TWO RESPAWNS. I didn't really intend to do this, but when I was
adding the spawns in I thought I remembered the first respawn I put in
there.. but I remembered wrong. It's the one in the window, overlooking
the RL and facing the MH. I left it in there because I like it, and I 
love hanging down the bottom near that main RL and fragging people mid
air as they jump for the RL. Now, since I decided to leave THAT spawn
in, I had 5 spawns in that area and 3 spawns in the RA area. Seemed 
like a bad idea. So I had the choice of removing the new one or adding
one in the other room. I added another right next to the LG, in the 
window frame, bringing the total respawns up to 9 with a 5/4 split 
between MH/RA rooms.
 
- added a bit of decoration next to the MH. That bit looked like shit
originally, especially when I put some more light in there.
 
- removed wall torch at MH, there is plenty of light there now anyway.
 
- Changed the look of the teleports slightly. Also made the teleport
trigger FLUSH with the frames rather than INSIDE the frames. No more 
getting stuck on the teleport edges in combat.
 
- map is vissed with wqbsp for transparent water (blood in this case)
and teleports. I don't tend to use transparencies anyway, but it looks
nice in pkeg1.bsp, and it's there for the people that want the feature.
Remember to use r_wateralpha 0.4 (or whatever) for transparencies, and
r_wateralpha 1 to turn it off.
 
- Added 2 windows at the RA. This was done mainly to give some more
natural light in that area, and to break up those big plain walls.
Since I am trying to keep to the original style, I just copied the
design of the LG windows and rotated it. I kept the windows AWAY from
the RA itself so that people can't stand in front of them to avoid RL
splash.
 
- CLIPPED OUT those new windows at RA. Reason - I wanted to keep the 
same clip hull profile as before, especially near the RA.. ie I wanted
a flat wall rather than having the player get stuck in the windows.
But I left the LG windows unclipped cos there is spawns in there, and
I've never been stuck in there at all.. played it hundreds of times and
never been blasted in there by RL splash either.
 
- FIXED clipping bugs which were present in fribdev1.bsp. This includes
the main RL area most notably.
 
- FIXED qw 2.3 movement bug at RA. Yes it reared its ugly head again,
even though I rebuilt the map from scratch. Even though there's nothing
there, heh. I fucked it off, I've yet to see it happen again in QW 
since I fixed it.

- added a new stair trim texture in pkeg1.bsp


}----------->(((º>------------< Credits >------------<º)))<-----------{
 
 ¤ ZzJohnzZ - without John's help, these maps would not exist.
   Encouragement and support, suggestions, extensive testing, demos,
   you name it, this dude did it, thanks man!
   Visit 3AC where Powder Keg is rated the #1 duel map. :P
   http://www.theoven.freeserve.co.uk/
 ¤ Mister Shambler for some valuable feedback
   http://www.planetquake.com/teamshambler/
 ¤ Daz, Zeph, Vert - playtesting
 ¤ David Jewsbury for Stoneless
 ¤ Gibfactory - textures
 ¤ Vondur for texture help
 ¤ Anyone else I've forgotten... what day is it?

                
}---------->(((º>---------< Play Information >---------<º)))<---------{

Requirements:        quake 1.01 or higher
Single player:       no sir
Cooperative:         no
Deathmatch:          1on1, 2on2, small FFA.
Difficulty Settings: no
New sounds:          no
New Graphics:        custom textures


}---------->(((º>----------< Construction >----------<º)))<-----------{

Base:               based on fribdev1.bsp, but rebuilt from scratch
Editor:             Stoneless (v 1.01)
Other Utils:        TexMex, Remipdlx, PSP 3.5, ArghLite, wQBSP, rvis+
Textures used:      Some from Quake
		    Some from Heretic2
	            Some I've made or modified
	            *RTeleport15 by Gibfactory
Build time:         a few hours
Compile machine:    celeron 400 96mb
Compile time:       about 10 secs for each version?
Known Bugs:         all clipping bugs have been eliminated as far as I
                    know. This map has been tested EXTENSIVELY in QW
	            and GLQuake, and all problems have been discovered
		    and dealt with. The whole point of this project is
	            to fix the bugs, so there had better fucking NOT
                    be any left. If you find any, please don't tell me,
		    I will probably kill you. :)



}--------->(((º>----------< My Quake Levels >----------<º)))<---------{
                                                                      
		     Electric Fish Deathmatch One
 		     Electric Fish Deathmatch Two
                    Electric Fish Deathmatch Three
                     Electric Fish Deathmatch Four
			    Efdm5 - Vortex
			   Efdm6 - Gunmetal
 			   Efdm7 - Biohazard
			Efdm8 - Cryptosporidium
			Efdm9 - Tangerine Dream
		    Efdm10 - WhiteChocolateSpaceEgg
 			   Efdm11 - Maelstrom
		      Efdm12 - Death by the Dozen

			 Fribdev1 - Powder Keg
		Fribweb1 - Webby's World Special Edition
	  Mrftig01 - Frib and Tigger-oN's arena (rocket arena)

	  All available from http://www.planetquake.com/frib/
	          plus ftp.cdrom.com and mirror sites


}--------->(((º>----------< Copyright Stuff >----------<º)))<---------{

Authors may not use this level as a base to build additional levels.
You may NOT decompile the level into a .map file for any reason 
whatsoever.
You may modify the .bsp (adding bot route files, gl-vis it, replacing 
textures, whatever) for you OWN PERSONAL USE only; do not distribute 
any modified versions of this level.

You are not allowed to commercially exploit this level, i.e. put it on 
a CD or any other electronic format that is sold for money, without my 
explicit permission.
You MAY distribute this BSP through any electronic network, provided 
you include this text file and leave the archive intact.

Basically, please don't fuck with the map, and don't fuck ME around.
I put a lot of time and effort into creating these levels, for free;
all I ask for in return is a little respect and common courtesy.
